That kind of was all of it,
hope you enjoyed it.
I always find these things
super fascinating, and
I really enjoy going deep down into
the rabbit holes of how things work.
And again, for
me it's not about performance for
me it's about just understanding
how the system works.
I feel better when I understand
>> Its shifting is a good idea, right?
Sometimes it is
>> Makes it more clear
>> Yes [LAUGH]
>> It's a question here on chat,
what other tools for static analysis and
performance should we look into
>> It's a good question.
I don't know that many out there,
I know there are tools that try to just
say what are the best practices and
kind of linters will scream at you if
you don't do the best practice, etc.
But that's more like make it easy for the
human to read rather than make it easy for
the computer to execute I think in
terms of what is easy for the computer,
you really only have one choice and
that is to ask the VM itself, right?
There are special flags you
can pass into the VM, so
the VM will tell you what's
actually happening underneath it.
Because VMs change this all the time,
the way things used to work and
the way things work now,
what are the kinds of optimizations VMs
used to deal with change over time.
So for example, the holey arrays used to
be an extreme penalty for doing that.
Not so much anymore, I think we showed
that it was like twice as slow,
it's not that big of a deal, right?
Unless you do holey arrays and
then also do a prototype chain mess up,
then you're really in a world of pain.
But for the most part, it's not so bad.
So these are all kinds of tricks
that change over the years.
And so really the only way to know is to
to ask the VM using the special flags and
say, hey, tell me the stuff.
Yes
>> So
should we basically try to avoid
touching prototypes altogether?
>> I think that's a good
good idea in general, yes.
Out outside of defining classes,
right, but even that,
we have a special syntax for
right now, there should be
very little reason to go and
mess with prototype chains.
And yeah, and you can see how,
if you mess with the prototype chains,
you kind of ruin it for
the VM because VM makes assumptions
that the prototype chains
have not been messed with.
And if it can make that assumption that it
can short circuit a whole bunch of work
>> Where can we learn more?
>> Where can you learn more?
I've never seen kind of a comprehensive
place where you can learn about
all these tricks I wish, V8 would, or
like the V8 team would do a better
job kind of sharing this information.
They have tech talks they've done,
there is pieces of these.
This information is kind of scattered
all over the internet, but I never
really seen it, put it in one exact
location where all the pieces are there.
I think part of the problem is
that these tricks, as I said,
they change over versions.
The way things work kind of changes,
and it's not always the same.
I think you had a question?
>> Yeah, you mentioned multiple
times about micro-benchmarking and
being very cautious with it.
>> Yes,
>> So
when it gets what's your approach
when you see wow, 60x improvement?
Well, in the real world,
it's just not gonna be that good,
but it might be better or do you
have to do something more to sort of
make a reasonable assumption that
it'll be a little bit better?
>> So I mean, if you have two benchmarks
and one shows better numbers,
probably it's a encouraging result, right?
So I think I would say that you
have to look at it overall.
You have to take all your knowledge and
be, okay, so
the benchmarks show in
the right direction.
I've changed this code and
I think it's making it better, etc.
And by putting it all together,
you can have a good feel for it.
The caching is, is tricky because
there's two kinds of caches, right?
There's the cache for the properties,
which we talked about, and
then when it's fixed to 1024.
But then the CPU also has an L0 and L1
cache, and those are also tricky because,
[COUGH] what happens is if
you run code in a tight loop,
the caches get primed, and
everything is a cache hit.
But now if you start executing
code all over your code base,
then you are a lot more likely to
have evictions and have cache misses.
And so just by the fact that
your benchmark is small, and
therefore all the code is on one pile,
that alone is making it faster, right?
Then in reality, when you have code
spread across a huge codebase,
that action alone, that the fact
that you spread it everywhere,
that alone will probably
cause it to perform slower.
Even though like in theory,
it shouldn't make any difference, right,
because memory access memory
access doesn't matter where it is.
But the fact that it's together, makes it
much more likely that you'll have a L0 and
L1 cache hit,
Plus there's tricks you can do.
For example, one of the things that modern
CPUs want to do is, they wanna make sure
that their instruction processing
pipeline, they call it a pipeline cuz
they really doing multiple instructions
all at once, it doesn't stall.
Stall basically means that, I don't know
what to do next, because the memory hasn't
gotten back to me, or I don't know,
there's an if statement, and
therefore I don't know which way to go,
or something like that, it's a stall.
And you wanna avoid stall, right?
You wanna just keep the CPU crunching
through numbers as much as possible.
And so, to keep the CPU from stalling,
there's two tricks it does, right?
One is, I said, it does branch prediction
where it just says, if statement,
I don't know which way I should go,
I don't care.
Let's just choose one and
keep going cuz I have a pretty good chance
that I will guess the correct branch, and
then I can reuse this work,
I can commit the work as being good.
The other way they do is they tell
the O0 cache to prefetch instructions.
They know that,
if I fetch an instruction here,
there's a good chance that I'm
gonna fetch the next one, right?
Unless there's a jump or go subroutine,
there's an extremely high
chance that the next instruction
is what I'm gonna go after.
And so when they issue these
L2 caches to fetch us,
they start fetching ahead of time.
They wanna make sure that
the CPU's always busy, right?
And so, this only typically works
better if the code is together.
Once you spread the code all over
the place and introduce other things,
that makes it much more
likely that won't work.
So it's modern CPUs and
modern compilers have
turned the whole thing into
a bit of a black magic.
In theory, this instruction should be
faster than this other instruction.
But what does it do in real life?
There's only one way to know, let's build
a whole bunch of benchmarks, which I
probably meant microbenchmark, and try to
guess and kind of see which one it is.
That compiler optimization is a whole
separate thing that I don't know enough
about, but
I think it'd be super fascinating talk.
>> So a lot of this is like optimizing and
it seems this sort of optimization is
really good for libraries and such.
When it comes to web applications,
what sort of things,
because of your experience
with the Qwik usage.
>> So for frameworks, right, this makes
a lot of sense because for example,
React has to do JSX different, right?
>> Yeah.
>> So
it better be as performant as possible.
For you as a developer may be
a little less if you're just building
an application, but still there might be
cases in your app, which are performance
sensitive in which cases,
these things matter and think about them.
And on some level, as I said,
some of these things are just good ideas,
just don't pollute prototype.
Don't create a holey arrays,
and just don't do these
things because the code is actually
easier to deal with, right?
If you have a class, make sure you
initialize all of the properties,
even if you don't need them right now,
right?
It's just a good idea,
I would argue that makes for better code.
>> Yeah, and with the double equals,
you don't get any false positives.
>> You don't get false positives, yes.
>> You use using triple equals.
>> Yes, so you can see, if somebody goes
and pollutes the prototype chain and
messes with the valueOf,
you can see how that has a huge
implication through the code base.
Because all of a sudden,
all the double equals,
they might actually follow different
rules because you made them different.
So, go change
object.prototype.valueOf and
see what happens in your performance of,
[LAUGH] your app.
>> Thank you for
the eye-opening class, Arga says.
Aaron says thank you.
Amitar says thanks as well.
On Twitch, fantastic chat,
class has been amazing.
Several fantastic class,
fantastic class really interesting.
Great job, thank you and
with that, good job.
>> [APPLAUSE]
>> Thank you for listening to my bad dad
jokes for, [LAUGH] for
this morning anyways.
>> Tweet @mhevery-
>> Yes mhevery is-
>> [CROSSTALK]
>> If you have a dad joke,
please send them.
>> Yes, you can send me dad jokes.
Actually a lot of people get
a kick when you install the Quick,
the CLI will tell you a dad
joke when you install it.
>> [LAUGH]